feat(berlin_summit_23): new blogpost [#98] (#102)
hendriknielaender/double-trouble: data/blog/berlin_summit_2023_review.md

---
publishDate: "May 8 2023"

> title: "Berlin Summit 2023 Writeup"

Author: Is indeed more catchy 👍🏻

> description: "Highlights, tips, recommendations from this years summit."

Author: Pretty cool for SEO indeed and sounds great 👍🏻 

But on the downside it blows up the preview 🤔 then i would prefer something short
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11775168/236951400-728099a9-2107-47c9-90a8-3cb18fb59828.png)

image: ~/assets/images/thumbnails/berlin_summit_keynote.jpg
imageCreditUrl: https://double-trouble.dev
tags: [conf, aws]
---

This years Berlin Summit showed why it needs to be taken seriously. The usual two day format got

> compressed into one, which made it feel that much more exciting. Polished booths, a diverse crowd,

Author: using 'that' here in this way is saying that the more compressed it is, the more exciting it was.. its like a special expression. I guess I'd keep it to make the sentence more interesting 🤔

plenty of snacks, exciting challenges and good talks.

> During this Summit Hendrik had stayed away, in part because of mixed reviews from

Author: Maybe lets do some variation of this sentence, so its clear why it was written in the I-form, while the blog has 2 authors. 🤔 

But we could also remove it.

> previous years, so only I went. And it was worth it!

Author: years seems correct
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11775168/236949507-304cb986-938b-41f8-932e-f092b4eed45e.png)

> # First Impressions

Author: https://www.grammarly.com/blog/capitalization-in-the-titles/

Titles and headings are capitalized differently

Heading straight into the "AWS World" area, waiting there was a difficult and fast-paced AWS quiz,

> along with AWS socks and stickers. The quiz was exceptional, and I really wish they would bring it

Author: i guess it's a nominalized adjective here

> out as an app for training.

Author: yeah they had a real life quiz there where you drag and drop answers into true or false buckets. the questions were falling inside little clouds from the sky and you had to react fast. would make for a crazy app to learn more about aws 👀

A cloud style escape room, a Four In A Row (Vier gewinnt) against AI, and AWS Principal Cloud
Architects already waiting on the sidelines, made me eager to come back later and explore

> more. The Four In A Row was interesting, as the metrics were published through Athena into a

Author: done ✅

pure technical deep dives, many of the Summit talks consist of stories. Big AWS customers like
Volkswagen, Merzendes Benz & more, share learnings from some of their biggest cloud
endeavours. While some of them keep it light, or shy away from technical details, in others a
leading engineer will bluntly tell you what worked and what didnt. Besides that, there are also
those expert talks by AWS, that focus only on a given architecture or pattern. Independent of
your skill level, this can give you a *feel* for aws - something that cannot be found in the docs,
the product video or in tutorials.

While I thought the keynote was underwhelming due to its overly heroic focus on the situation in
Ukraine, and the boring talk from Siemens, what followed was much better. After past years of swag
hunting, this year I was satisfied with the AWS socks and stickers I got early on, and got sucked
into one talk after the other.

# Ideas and Highlights

Opposite to the Nodeconf we visited last year, the Berlin Summit didn't really have a common
theme - well, except for the usage of AWS. The different stories and learnings provided by big AWS

> customers, as well as from AWS themselves, still provided a constant stream of brainfood and new

Author: https://www.dict.cc/?s=brainfood correct in this case

ideas.

Ideas from the talks I saw:
- Data Visibility in the company is key.
- Consider the impact a customized experience could have on your customers and revenue.
- When building an AI, look at existing use-cases over here https://aiexplorer.aws.amazon.com/

Highlights and Learnings:
- Quite possibly my favorite talk was ANT301 (Frictionless Compliant Data & Analytics Environments
  at Merck). Kudos to [John Mousa](https://www.linkedin.com/in/johnmousa/) for making this
  presentaiton exceptionally kind, enjoyable and insightful. Truly a talk of its own league.
  ![](/src/assets/berlin_summit_2023_review/ant301_people.jpg)

>   - You make change happen by identifying innovators and empowering them

Author: i'd say this doesnt need to be uppercase

    mess and many people stirring their own pot.
    ![](/src/assets/berlin_summit_2023_review/ant301_layers.jpg)
- [Jonathan Weiss'](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jonathan-weiss-26938622/) MAD202 (The Amazon
  Development Process) must have been a close second. Keeping feedback loops short is key. Amazon
  calls it the ECT loop (edit-compile-test), I term it "the feedback loop of doom".
  - Ops Meetings can be a good way to increase dashboard and monitoring practices in the company
    ![](/src/assets/berlin_summit_2023_review/mad202_ops_meetings.jpg)
  - Change happens by treating service teams as independent startups. They are empowered to make
    their own decisions. They can decide, which feature they believe will serve the customer
    best. As a trade-off for more autonomy, they get held accountable only through KPIs, looking
    at the end results.
  - Following Werner Vogels approach of [working
    backwards](https://www.allthingsdistributed.com/2006/11/working_backwards.html) from customer
    needs is one of the hardest and most important things to put into practice.
- MAD303 (Unlocking Busines Agility with Event-Driven Architectures), a great architecture talk,

>   really hammered home the point of puttung queues behind event receivers. Allowing any subscriber

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  really hammered home the point of putting queues behind event receivers. Allowing any subscribers
```
